So the last thing we need to learn about before we build our newsreader app is how to display web content
within our apps and we do that using something called a web tv which does exactly what you might expect.
And allows us to display Web sites and other HVM L based content right there within our apps.
So here we go.
I'm going to start by creating our wepe in the usual way in our layout so I'm going to scroll down and
find on the containers.
Wepe So let's get rid of the text the
dragging out where you make it full width and height.
I'll give it an idea of where you and that's all the set up that we need.
Or just run it so that we can run it quickly later on.
And then we set up our Wehby in the on create method.
So we'll begin by finding it in the usual way by its ID.
So we'll create a variable called Wehby and we'll find that by its ID
resources ID dot wepe
and we need to cast that see
a web view as well.
And I think I need to capitalize that.
And you capitalized that one as well just to keep everything up to scratch and there's a couple of settings
that we need to customize and the first one I'd recommend doing pretty much every time it's using where
you get settings and then you can see there's a whole range of settings.
Depending on what you're going to be doing with your web view that you might want to adjust that the
one that I'd always choose unless you specifically don't need it is set.
Javascript enabled and I would set that true simply because javascript is so widely used on the web
if you don't do this it's likely that any Web sites that you display will display properly.
Of course if you're doing something particularly security conscious so you want to particularly control
what the user is doing then you might not want to do that but in the general case where you just want
to display websites like in our newsreader app then I would turn javascript on and the other setting
that will add is set web view client and will set this as a new web view client.
And this is because on a number of phones if you don't do this then instead of actually displaying it
in your web view it will jump to the devices default browser and display the web site instead.
Which is almost certainly not what you want if you're creating a wepe all rights.
So then we just need to load a r rl
and that can be any you are all you want.
So let's go for BWB to Google dot com and that will then load that you are well into that with you.
We're not quite done yet though because we need to ask for a permission here.
And that permission is the internet permission.
So Android permission to Internet
obviously without that we're not going to be able to display very much of interest.
OK.
So that's all there is to it.
With added out the wave it set javascript enabled.
We've said it as the web client and we've loaded a u r l in it.
So then let's have a look and then we get it.
So there's our web with the Google web site displayed it and we can obviously interact with that in
the usual way.
One other thing to show you is that as well as loading external you are or else you can also load HVM
l content using load data.
So if you know any HDMI you should be able to come up with a basic HDMI web page might look something
like this.
So we define bit of HD m l l tag then begin to define the body of the page.
We can do a simple each one Hedda which will say hi there closed the header then start a paragraph
saying this is my web site played the paragraph plays the body and then and now its HTML page.
Within it to add a couple of extra variables.
The first is the type of data that we're loading in this is IGT M-L data.
So we use text slash HGL and then we enter the character encoding that we're using and we're going to
use just the different character encoding which is UTF 8 that we get.
So this can be useful in several situations especially if you are a web developer and you want to display
a certain amount of web content to the user that you might want to load data like this.
It's worth noting as well that you can build complete apps in this way using the web view as the basis
for the whole lab and then the app itself is written in HCM LCS s and Javascript.
I talk about how to do that in my complete web developer course but we're not going to go into that
now.
We don't need it because we can build apps natively.
And they were gay.
So there's now HCM l content which could display anything we like.
All right.
So that's all we need to know about web use.
Of course they are going to be what we will use to display our news content to our users in the news
re the app that we're going to build in the next video.